today I'm going to show you a project
making a knot tying station it was said
that ancient times was held together
with cordage that's broke and it's true
and it's very important for the
homesteader the prepper the camper and
to stay you know up on these notch and
to practice them and that's exactly what
this station is for I I've said scrap
material hanging around it could be made
out of pretty much anything that you've
got what I use here was a 1 by 12 that
wasn't really any good for anything else
I had a a week not in the check right
here so we'll practice station is
perfect for those kinds of material
I just rotted the face a little edge
profile 18 inches in length and the top
of the profile on both sides determined
the length on my top my top starts with
the profile ends another thing that I
did was I simply glue it at pocket
screwed it avoid them that weak area and
I was something about I used 3/8 inch
nylon rope bought from Home Depot and I
just cinched the edges at the end they
keep them from unraveling and I used an
overhand knot so we'll be showing you
that in a minute but everybody knows
that I drilled two inches down and these
two ropes over here are 36 inches in
length this one is 6 feet in length for
extra long knives the dowel on the top
is one of the quarter inches and the
dowel on the bottom is 5/8 inches and
using a 5/8 inch Forstner bit I drilled
a hole in the base and a hole in the top
dowel and I just glued it and popped it
into place
I used Minwax as a finish and I gave
myself approximately four and a half
inches clearance for easy wrapping so go
out build yourself a night cleaning
station and in a moment we'll go over
simple knots that are important to us